Rule 1: Day Trading is not a strategy to get rich quickly 
Rule 2: Day Trading is not easy. It is a serious business 
Rule 3: Do not hold positions overnight 
Rule 4: Is stock moving because overall market is moving or it has an unique fundamental catalyst? 
Rule 5: Success comes from risk management - low-risk entries with a high potential. 
Rule 6: Your only job as a day trader is to manage risk 
Rule 7: Retail traders trade only Stocks in Play, high relative volume stocks that have fundamental catalysts and are being traded regardless of the overall market 
Rule 8: Experienced traders are like guerrila soldiers. They jump out at just the right time, take their profit and get out 
Rule 9: Green candle indicate buying pressure, red candle indicates selling pressure 
Rule 10: Indicators only indicate; they should not be allowed to dictate

Pre-market scanning 
9.15 - 11.15 momentum trading 

Risk and Account Management 
===========================
Important Triangle: Entry, Exit, Controlling Emotions 
"Live to play another day" 
This career is called trading, not predicting. Do not hold a position to prove your prediction is correct. 
profit-to-loss ratio should NOT be less than 2:1 
3 steps to manage risks
  1. Am I trading the right stock? 
  2. What share size I should trade? Define your trading goal 
  3. What is my stop loss? Never risk more than 2% of your account on any given trade 
     With a modest amount of funds, trade a smaller number of shares. Make it one of your unbreakable rules. 

SAIL LTP: 41.1
Step 1: Determine maximum risk for the trade 
Max risk per trade = 70 (2% of 3500) 
Step 2: Estimate your maximum risk per share (stop loss) 
Max risk per share = 0.30 
Step 3: Max no. of shares allowed to trade 
max no. of shares = 70 / 0.30 = 233 

You need to have a well-thought-out plan and you need to follow that plan 
Being able to make quick decisions and following trading rules are critical to success in the market 
You shuld not expect to be right all of the time 

How to find stocks for trade 
============================
"You are only as good as the stocks that you trade" 
Stock in Play gives 5:1 profit-to-loss ratio 
 1. A stock with fresh news 
 2. A stock that is up or down more than 2% before the market open 
 3. A stock that has unusual pre-market trading activity 
 4. A stock that develops important intraday levels which we can trade off 
Retail trading works only on the stocks that have high relative volume 
Float and Market Cap 
Categories of Stocks 
 1. Low float stocks that costs less than 50 
 2. Medium float stocks 
 3. Mega Cap 
 
Finding Stocks in Play 
Pre-Market Gappers 
1. pre-market gap up or down at least 2% 
2. pre-volume > 30,000 
3. average daily volume > 1M 
4. There is a fundamental catalyst for the stock 
Realtime Intraday Volume Scanner
1. Have gapped up or down 2 rupees
2. ATR > 1 
3. Relative volume > 1.5 
4. Average daily trading volume > 500,000
Momentum Scanner 
1. High relative volume 
2. Low float 
3. High activity 
Reversal Scanner 


Strategy that works well 
 - Taking only the best setups and waiting on sidelines until we see something worth trading 
If day trading is not boring for you, you are probably overtrading 
Your goal is to trade well, not to trade often 

Indicators on chart 
1. Candlesticks 
2. Volume of shares being traded 
3. 9 EMA 
4. 20 EMA 
5. 50 SMA 
6. 200 SMA 
7. VWAP 
8. Previous day's closing price 

Support/Resistance 

Price Action and Mass Psychology 
Bullish candle 
Bearish candle 
Indecision candles - spinning tops (small body with equal wicks) & Doji (wick longer than its body) 
If doji forms in bullish trend, it suggests reversal 
If doji forms in bearish trend, it suggests reversal 

Day Trading Strategies 
======================
Based on 3 elements 
 1. Price action 
 2. Technical indicators 
 3. Candlesticks and chart patterns 

There is only a small handful of stocks that are going to be traded heavily on retail volume. 
You must look for stocks that have significant retail traders' interest and significant retail volume 
Preference: 5-min charts and simultaneously 1-min charts 

Trade Management
 1. Novice traders believe that when they enter the trade, they should do nothing but patiently wait for price to hit target 
 2. This is the opposite of what professional traders do 
 3. Trade management requires experience and real-time decision making 
Position Sizing
 1. Refers to how large of a position that you take per trade 
 2. No matter what, do NOT risk more than 2% of your account in one trade 
 3. Never enter the trade all at once 
 4. Scale into the trade e.g: 500/500 or 100/200/700 (not recommended for beginners) 
 5. DO NOT average down losing positions. 85% it will succeed, the 15% it fails will be sufficient to wipe your entire account 
 
Predictions without validation from price action are not advisable if you wish to enjoy a long trading career 
Your job is not prediction and anticipation, but the idnetification of trends and then taking of a successful ride on them 

Strategy 1: ABCD Pattern 
 1. You should do whatever all of the other traders are doing because trend is your friend 
 2. ABCD patterns starts with a string upward move 
 3. Buyers are aggresively buying from point A to B 
 4. At point B, traders start selling the stocks and the price comes down 
 5. If price does not come down from a certain level (C), then stock has found a potential support 
 6. Buy at C, with a stop being a break below point C 
 7. Profit target was when stock a new low on a 5-min chart 
 Steps
   1. A stock is surging up from point A to a significant new high for the day (point B) 
   2. Wait to see if the price makes a support higher than point A. This is point C. 
   3. Watch the stock during consolidation phase 
   4. When price is holding support at point C, enter trade close to the price C in anticipation of moving forward to point D or higher 
   5. Stop loss is point C. 
   6. If prices move higher, sell half of the stock at point D and stop loss to higher point (break-even) 
   7. Sell remaining positions as soon as target hits or price is losing steam. When price makes a new low on 5-min chart, exit there
   
Strategy 2: Bull Flag Momentum 
 1. Works very effectively on low float stocks (low price stocks) 
 2. Several large candles and a series of small candles moving sideways (consolidation phase) 
 3. Enter only during 1st and 2nd consolidation phase 
 4. Normally it is difficult to catch the first bull flag (use scanner to catch it) 
 5. Stop Loss should be the breakdown of the consolidation phase 
 6. Bull Flag Pattern can be seen in any short time frame: 1-min, 2-min, 5-min charts 
 7. Sell half of the position on the way up 
 8. Sell the remaining position as soon as target hits or you sense the price is losing steam 
 9. Do not short bull flag 

Mantra: what goes up, must come down & vice versa 
 
Strategy 3 & 4: Top & Bottom Reversal 

Each Reversal Strategy has 4 important elements: 
 1. atleast 5 candlesticks on a 5-min chart moving up or down 
 2. The stock will have an extreme 5-min RSI indicator (RSI above 90 and below 10) 
 3. RSI is an indicator that compares the magnitude of recent gains and losses in price over a period of time to measure the speed and change of price movement. 
 4. RSI values range from 0 to 100 
 5. Traders in Reversal Strategy use RSI to identify overbought or oversold conditions and to find buy or sell signals 
 6. RSI > 90 = overbought, RSI < 10 = oversold 
 7. Configure scanner to highlight RSIs lower than 20 and higher than 80 
 8. You must simultaneously look for certain RSI level and number of consecutive candles 
 9. Stock should be trading at or near an important intraday support or resistance level 
 10. When trend is coming to an end, indecision candles such as doji or spinnin top form. This is when you need to be ready. 
 11. Shooting star indicates sellers may soon push the price down 
 12. Hammer may indicate buyers may soon push the price higher 
 13. In reversal trends, you look for indecision candles 
 14. In reversal trading, RSI should be extrmely high (> 90 or < 10) 
 15. Entry at intraday support (Bottom Reversal) 
 16. Entry at intraday resistance (Top Reversal) 
 17. Use 5-min chart for confirmation signal 
 18. Take profit when price reaches a moving average (9 EMA, 20 EMA or VWAP) 
 19. In Bottom Reversal, if stocks pops up and then suddenly moves down, stop out for a loss 
 20. If price stays flat, get out, no matter what happens after that. 
 21. If you get into profit-zone, adjust the stop, first to break-even and then to the low of the last 5-min candle. 
 22. Keep adjusting the stop as you go up 
 23. In Reversal Strategy, the main task is to watch stocks that are running up or down while simultaneously identifying possible support and resistance levels that could provide a good reversal opportunity on daily charts 
 24. In Bottom Reversal, keep stop loss at the bottom of the indecision candle 
 25. Sometimes reversal will be indicated by a strong bullish or bearish candle 
 26. When looking for reversals, trade only in the extremes or near a significant intraday support/resistance 
 27. How to identify extremes? 
     1. An extreme RSI (above 90, below 10) 
	 2. Very high volume. volume is at its maximum at the point of reversal 
	 3. More than 5 consecutive candles ending with an indecision candle or doji 
 28. Reversal strategy have a large profit-to-loss ratio for new traders 
 
Strategy 3: Bottom Reversal Strategy 
 1. Set up scanner to flag stocks with 4 or more consecutive candles going down in an extreme manner 
 2. Quickly review the volume and S/R to see if it will be a good candidate for a reversal trade or not 
 3. Wait for confirmation of reversal 
    1. Formation of bullish doji or indecision candle 
	2. Formation of a very bullish candle 
	3. Stock traded at or near intraday support level 
	4. RSI must be lower than 10 
 4. Buy when the stock make a new 1-min or 5-min high 
 5. Stop loss should be low of the previous red candle or low of the day 
 6. Profit target should be either:
    1. Next level of support 
	2. VWAP or 9 EMA or 20 EMA whichever is closer 
	3. Stock makes a new 5-min low 
	
Strategy 4: Top Reversal Strategy 
 1. Set up scanner to flag stocks with 4 or more consecutive candles going up in an extreme manner
 2. Quickly review the volume and S/R to see if it will be a good candidate for a reversal trade or not
 3. Wait for confirmation of reversal
    1. Formation of bearish doji or indecision candle 
	2. Formation of a very bearish candle 
	3. Stock is being traded at or near the significant resistance level 
	4. RSI higher than 90 
 4. Short stocks when the stock make a new 5-min low 
 5. Stop loss should be high of previous candle or high of the day 
 6. Profit target should be either: 
    1. Next level of support 
	2. VWAP or 9 EMA or 20 EMA whichever is closer 
	3. Stock makes a new 5-min high 
	
Strategy 5: Moving Average Trend Trading 
 1. Many stocks move up or down after 11 am & MA in 1-min and 5-min charts can be used to determine moving support/resistance 
 2. Use 9 EMA, 20 EMA, 50 SMA, 200 SMA 
 3. Stocks in Play trending around 9 EMA 
 4. Quickly review previous day's trading data to see if stock is responding to these moving averages 
 5. After confirmation of moving averages as support, buy as close as possible to MA line 
 6. Stop Loss below the moving average line 
 7. Ride the trend and take some profit, usually at half-position
 8. MA provide potential levels of support and resistance 
 9. Make trade based on trends rarely as you are exposed for a longer time 
 10. This strategy works best during mid-day and the close. 
 11. The MA Trend Strategy has clear entry & exit points 
 
Strategy 6: VWAP Trading 
 1. When stock trades above VWAP, buyers are in control 
 2. When stock trades below VWAP, sellers are in control 
 3. Monitor price action around VWAP at open 
 4. If stock shows respect towards VWAP, then wait for a confirmation (VWAP break for short and VWAP support for long) 
 5. Buy as close as possible to VWAP 
 6. Stop loss at 5-min break below VWAP 
 7. Keep the trade until it hits your profit or it reaches a new support/resistance 
 8. Sell half positions near the profit target and move the stop loss to entry point or break even 
 
Strategy 7: Support or Resistance Trading 
 1. Market remembers only price levels, which is why horizontal support or resistance lines on previous price levels makes sense 
 2. Support is a horizontal line connecting two or more bottoms 
 3. Resistance is a horizontal line connecting two or more tops 
 4. Finding price support or resistance levels is tricky and requires trading experience 
 5. S/R lines on daily charts are not always easy to find. 
 6. If you cannot see anything clear, dont draw anything 
 7. 0.50 and round numbers usually acts as support or resistance level 
 8. Always look at recent data to draw lines 
 9. The more a line touching extreme price lines, the more that the line is a better support or resistance 
 10. Only S/R lines in the current price range are important 
 11. The price must have a clear bounce from that level. If not, it is probably not a support or resistance level 
 12. Steps 
     1. Look at daily charts & find areas of S/R 
	 2. Monitor price action around those areas on a 5-min chart
	 3. If an indecision candle forms around one of those areas, that is the conformation. Enter the trade 
	 4. Buy as close as possible to the support level, with a stop loss under the close of 50min candle under support level 
	 5. Take profit near resistance or next support level 
	 6. If there are no obvious resistance or next support levels, consider closing the trade around 0.5 or round number 
	 
Strategy 8: Red-to-Green Trading 
 1. Monitor price action around the previous day close 
 2. If stock moves towards previous day close with high volume, go long with the target as previous day close 
 3. Stop loss should be break of VWAP/MA/Support 
 
Strategy 9: Green-to-Red Trading 
 1. Monitor price action around the previous day close 
 2. If stock moves ahead previous day close with high volume, go short with the target as previous day close 
 3. Stop loss should be break of VWAP/MA/Support 

Strategy 10: Opening Range Breakouts (ORB) 
 1. This strategy signals entry point but not target 
 2. Works best with mid to large cap stocks 
 3. Not recommended to trade low float stocks that have gapped up or down 
 4. Ideally, stock should trade within a opening range (first 5 mins or 15 mins) which should less than the ATR of the stock 
 5. Opening 5 mins should be directional (up or down) with high volume and higher number of orders. Not few orders covering high volume
 6. opening range < ATR 
 7. After 5 mins, if stock breakout, enter the trade 
 8. Stop loss is close to VWAP 
 9. Target could be:
    1. Important intraday daily levels identified in pre-market 
	2. Moving averages on daily chart 
	3. Previous day close 
	4. exit when stock shows signs of weakness 
